Git and Unix for everyone

Notes:

Why Unix?
Most people are here because they want to be an app developer, but apps need a place to live
Servers
The majority of the world’s apps live on servers, that most likely run on unix
Unix is more stable, and faster, more comparable, and usually free - generally speaking

Linux is the unix-like core

Darwin is the unix-like core

Networking capabilities of Unix is why it’s so prolific

input-output redirection : means that input can come from some place other than the keyboard and output someplace that’s not the screen

unix kernel - is just a program and it has one very speical job: manages the hardware

If any program wants permission to access the hardware, it was go through the kernel.

kernel is like the go-between for all the programs on the computer and how they work with the hardware (CPU, memory [RAM], Devices [Keyboard, mouse, display]).

Kernel is safe from hackers, while it is running it

Unix Shell - another program whose job is to provide a user interface to the kernel.  An interface to the kernel.  “shell” basically refers to the command line variety.

bash just stands for bourn again shell.  Each shell is its own program.

The Command Line interpreter was the original unix shell(?)

a GUI is also a shell.  a multi-touch interface is also a shell.  Audible user interfaces are also shells (

Path stuff:

an absolute path starts with a slash

a relative path does not start with a slash

type man and the command to get a manual

**When using the manual, press q to get out of the manual

CTRL-C  — Kills a process

When you are typing in the command line, you can type CTRL-U to just clear out what you are typing

CMD-K is the same as typing clear

.  : current directory
.. : Previous directory
~ : Home Directory

| : pipe character takes input from the first command and uses it as output in the second commanda

> : takes the output and rights AND/OR re-writes it.  This will overwrite existing data

>> : appends/add to the existing file.  If the file doesn’t exist, it will simply create it


